you should accept yourself just the way
you are what does that say about who I
should become is that just now off the
table because I'm already good enough in
every way so am I done or something get
the hell up get your act together adopt
some responsibility put your life
together develop a vision unfold all
those manifold possibilities that lurk
within be a force for good in the world
and that'll be the adventure of your
life
[Music]
so that's why you're noticing
polarization go up everywhere not just
on the Israeli side of the debate on the
terrorism everywhere there's
polarization because that's their method
for Change and so we've got to be
careful we're not being useful PSIs for
dialectical materialism by using
language that continues The Divide
increases the Divide rather than bring
people together people are possessed to
a greater or lesser degree by this web
of ideas they reflect that in their own
perception and action as individuals but
then when they get together as groups
like imagine that a given person is 25%
possessed by the politically correct web
of ideas but then you get a hundred
people like that in a room let's say at
Davos and then you have the whole web of
ideas and it has an animating ethos like
it's it looks at the world in a certain
way and is aiming at certain ends and
then that entire system of ideas Works
to promote that and it also means that
it can operate in a distributed manner
because to the degree that any given
person is possessed by some fraction of
those ideas they'll go off into their
own domain and agitate on behalf of the
idea system and that's a principality
and that will act to further the entire
uh the entire catastrophe and really the
the entire idea system in its most
fundamental element is a it's an idol
it's a false idol it's a false religion
[Music]
hello everyone I'm here today talking to
Majid Naas a uh colleague and well
Dawning friend of mine we've spoken a
number of times in a variety of
different circumstances most recently
Majid had contacted me uh with some
opposition to things I had said or
allowed to be
said or facilitated the transmission of
let's say talking to Benjamin Netanyahu
about the situation in Palestine and so
we've been going back and forth on that
front and decided to have a conversation
and so that's what's happening today
here and also on the daily wire on
YouTube and also on the dailywire plus
platform Majid naaz is a British
anti-extremist political commentator
activist and podcast host he was
recently released from his LBC Radio
Show as a consequence of his views on
the covid-19 pandemic he wasn't really
in favor of the mandated vaccines and
has been has has roots as one of the
original named members of the
hypothetical intellectual dark web along
with characters such as myself Douglas
Murray and Ben Shapiro among others good
to have a chance to talk to Majid again
today hi Ma it's been a while since
we've had a chance to talk I don't I
think I the last time we spoke I think
was probably on your show wasn't it and
that was what is that four years ago
three years
ago thank you for remembering I uh was
very proud to be the first national
broadcaster to conduct a long form uh
interview with you in Britain on the
national Airwaves um a job I was since
cancelled from but it was around the
time of your own incredibly interesting
uh conversation on Channel 4 when what
became a meme of course from there if
you remember was so what you're saying
is and your respons is to that
persistent question uh basically were
the stuff of Legends so uh it's a
pleasure being here again with you
Jordan and as I said thank you for
remembering uh that we had that
conversation they had some sound issues
it's still on YouTube and uh people can
still catch that it was um uh before the
world went mad I think even though we
could probably both see it was on the
way to going mad it was definitely on
the way yeah that uh that channel 4
interview with Kathy Newman I think has
30 million views now still doesn't it
refuses to die but interesting you know
um I was interviewed a couple probably
two years later by Helen Lewis for the
GQ on putatively for their issue on
masculinity strangely enough and uh that
interview Helen had more tricks in her
bag than Kathy Newman and that interview
now has 60 million views and so but
they're they're they're both reflections
of the same
underlying surreal strangeness that we
see ourselves constantly surrounded with
now yeah so but that's not where I first
met you though I first met you when uh I
had just finished my touring with Sam
Harris and uh you had just come on the
scene there with Sam and began your
dialogues and uh I was uh in the
audience actually for some of those
especially the ones in London um and
again thank you for having us at your
recent London eventman and I Brotherman
that you met we were very happy to see
you there as well we we met I think with
Douglas Murray didn't we at that point
for a for a dinner we had dinner lunch
yep Tammy was there Tammy was there
Douglas was there you were there and uh
I think it was in his London flat the
time that he had and we had a lovely
conversation then as well um yeah it's
been a while it's been many years we've
been in touch but this is I think the
first time we've sat down on your show
um and it's actually I'm I'm very happy
that we're doing this because I think
the time is it's a good time yeah so so
for everybody watching and listening
I've been corresponding with Majid for
the last couple of months trying to set
this up and a fair bit of that has
circulated around the Abraham Accord
issue that I've been speaking about and
the Israel Palestine situation and so I
thought we might as well hash that out
to begin with and so I'm not exactly
sure how to begin that I I maybe I'll
start by talking about my experience on
the Abraham Accord front and you can
tell me you know what what you think
about that and then we'll dive into the
weeds so sure I I was very ill for a
good while um from 200 even 2018 when I
was on tour but it got really bad by
2021 I was kind of out of commission for
about 3 years and when I started to
spring back to life some people in my
circle alerted me to the emerging fact
of the Abraham Accords and I started to
keep an eye on them and was very struck
by what was happening the fact that this
peace process putative peace process was
emerging outside of the confines of the
state department uh under the tender
aices of Donald Trump and his
organization and it looked to me like an
extraordinarily it had the potential to
be an extraordinarily significant
advance and then I was struck by how
much it was downplayed in the let's say
Legacy press and also by the Democrats
that I was working with because I worked
with some Democrats behind the scenes
for a very long time and was unable to
elicit from them any real enthusiasm for
this move forward which struck me as
very very odd to say the least and still
does and since then I've investigated
the process by which the Abraham Accords
were um were negotiated with a number of
the people who were directly involved in
including the former Israel ambassador
to the US and the American ambassador to
Israel and um still am of the opinion
that this looks
like a Avenue to something approximating
peace in an area that has been
characterized by very little peace for a
very long time so in any case that's the
situation on my front and we've
exchanged a bit of email about that
topic and I'm well I'm very interested
in your views about the Abraham Accord
and about to the degree that you regard
that as relevant about my involvement
with publicizing
it well uh first of all it's something I
raised as well before I was cancelled on
my previous show um on LBC I was
cancelled for the record three months
before my contract was due to expire and
the reason I was cancelled uh was very
evident and clear to me I have all the
receipts and uh in fact 5 years
remaining on a legal case that I
initiated and the lawyers were so happy
with the case that they're doing it uh
without charge and uh my basic point was
that I was canceled for raising covid
mandates uh being what I believe one of
the greatest crimes ever committed or
attempted to be committed Against
Humanity and I objected to the mandates
and refused as a conscientious objector
to take uh from the booster shot onwards
having been uh coercively injected in
prison against my will I thought that um
it was uh absolutely unacceptable for
the state to put me back in that
position because everything I had been
everything I had been fighting for since
up until that point um including on LBC
and this relates to the Abraham Accords
question you've just asked me Jordan uh
was for Universal peace and love and uh
uh with the background that I have which
I won't go into now it's well known and
if anyone wants to catch up on that they
can watch my uh other interviews but uh
with the background I I have I thought
it was particularly important for me to
reach out to all communities in peace
and extend a hand uh of Peace we say
salamu alaykum when we meet people and I
did so with uh and you know I don't need
to go over that as well the track record
there for the last decade what I've been
doing is very clear it culminated in my
dialogue with Sam Harris Islam and the
future of Tolerance and that turned into
a film so when the Abraham Accords came
about in that Spirit Jordan um of course
you'd expect me uh to want to give peace
a chance and and and my My Views in
reaction to that are on the record
they're all there online in again before
my job was canceled in fact Clips were
uploaded of me embracing uh the
opportunity for peace what I'd like to
say in response to your uh question but
it was I think it was necessary that
Preamble was necessary because I think
peace and uh uh though it must be
embraced it has to be uh regardless of
power dynamics I believe it has to be uh
it has to be presented the opportunity
has to be presented as if we are
speaking to equals and I don't mean
equals in terms of physical strength uh
War capabilities I mean uh human equals
I mean cognitive equals I mean spiritual
uh equals and for that reason uh uh I'm
probably again a caveat for what I'm
about to say I'm probably one of the
most vocal Muslim voices in the west who
has advocated for giving peace a chance
cons considering my background and where
I've come from I have every excuse uh
not to want to give peace a chance when
it comes to how the world uh has treated
certain people including me in the past
but I think it's really important that
we have to uh fight for peace and one of
the ways uh that it's possible is
regardless of material power dynamics we
approach the so-called adversary who's
really a mirror of ourselves uh as an
equal and the reason I mentioned that is
that there's certain language around
the entire question of the Middle East
and it's what I I think I gave you a bit
of a telling off I'm sorry Jordan um
it's better in person uh with a smile
than it is um online so I'm happy to
have this opportunity to explain why I
believe this is a a much better way for
us to uh to progress and that is because
there are certain language that is used
around not just the Abraham Accords but
peace in the Middle East which can be
unintentionally can come with
uh with stigmatizing
connotations that uh build up a feeling
of otherness as opposed to Bringing
people closer together which is a
prerequisite for peace our language has
to bring people closer together if our
language is stigmatizing while we're
saying that we want peace then
unfortunately that's not the behavior of
somebody that wants peace that's the
behavior of somebody who wants to blame
the adversary for still being angry
while they've extended a hand of peace
and the only persons that have the
ability to do that are those that have
the material power in other words the
luxury to be able to afford uh speaking
uh in tones that are divisive while
saying I'm extending a hand In Peace So
a person that has nothing but their
dignity uh to try and defend in any War
situation uh will only ever expect
people to address them as a cognitive
and a spiritual equal on a human level
so when I say language you're no
stranger to this Jordan because of your
own um uh your own expertise and what in
fact has led you to prominence around
the world because you understand the
importance of language and context and
symbolism and tradition
so um we're going to I would love to
revisit this question of language
actually um as we continue speaking
later on but for now I'll just say the
example uh because I think it goes all
the way back to uh the oral tradition
and why um it's important to remember uh
before the written word uh how language
was received and given um which I'm sure
you're aware to what I'm alluding in
terms of the semetic tradition as well
but uh we can come to that later for the
moment what I'd like to say is right
down to if we want the Abraham Accords
to work uh right down to uh the the
adjectives we use to describe it um as I
said I probably done with respect and I
don't mean this to be in any sense
arrogant uh Jordan I don't mean to boast
and I don't mean to put you down I
probably done more than you on uh for
peace in the Middle East um that
wouldn't surprise me at the least and
I've suffered for it um and so take this
from a brother who says it to you uh
that I think that for example when we
say things like judeo Christian
civilization when we know for a fact
that historically um all of the uh the
philosophies and the principles that we
cherish so dearly in our small o small s
open societies because I don't want to
endorse soros's program of open Society
so all of the principles and values we
endorse in our small o and Smalls open
Society
um were protected cherished and then
translated by the golden era in the
Middle East during the time of the
ancient caliphates uh and we know the uh
the heritage of andalia Islamic Spain
and the way in which the philosophies
were preserved from there how may mon
days and others emerg from there and we
understand therefore that uh part of
this equation judeo-christian
civilization uh it's a deliberate uh uh
it's a deliberate amputation of a limb
not to uh not to uh include musl mlims
within that conversation and so
abrahamic is more inclusive but I've
noticed people increasingly use
judeo-christian civilization when
talking about challenging the woke for
example another problem there is that
what what does that lead to why am I
raising that because the the othering
words for me I believe are are spells
and when we cast spells we create
feelings in people that Reserve receive
those words so when we speak in those
terms that excludes one key element of
that uh from that conversation
though of course I know I'm a British
Citizen and I'm welcome here in uh in
this discourse um if if it's a
judeo-christian civilization I'm
expected to assimilate into then I will
always be the other and I will always be
approaching this discourse uh from an
outside perspective and will be heard as
the other by those on the inside but if
we understand that our civilization
isn't only judeo-christian and in fact
uh right down to algebra coming from ja
Ali who invented the concept uh the the
CER or the zero either coming from the
Sanskrit in Indian or from the Arabic uh
numerals um you know I could go on and
on if we understand that then there's no
way uh that that that uh philosophically
we could ever find ourselves in a
position where whether with thought or
not we don't raise there's no way we
could ever raise a question that erases
the existence of a people and that's
what I believe happened when you spoke
to Netanyahu I believe the attempt to
erase the existence of Palestinians I
believe the attempt to present the
squatter analogy uh in other words as
was expressly stated in that
conversation between you uh uh Benyamin
Netanyahu that this was empty land had
no occupies and therefore when we
arrived like the squatters in an empty
property we immediately have right over
this land and and that recognizes
absolutely no claim for Palestinians I
believe that's exclusionary language and
doesn't Aid the spirit of What's called
the Abraham Accords in fact denies a
people and last thing I say Jordan last
I say please yeah no no go ahead it's
not a new point it's not a new Point uh
um so when we when we do that of course
how do we expect Palestinians to receive
that language if they receive it being
excluded that leads to reaction in other
words anger it leads to a separation not
a bringing together and I acknowledge
one thing by the way that the term
Palestinian in our language is a
modernist term so I'm not getting stuck
on semantics I'm saying that there were
an Arab people there as well and they
must be ackowledge whether you want to
call them Palestinians whether you want
to call them shami Yin lentine today
they happen to be in the area that is
within Israeli military Authority called
the West Bank today they happen to say
okay you know this is we're Palestinian
because this is the ancient land of
Palestine I don't prefer I prefer not to
get stuck on semantics I know
netanyahu's argument is all but there
was no such thing as Palestine there was
no such thing as Israel before 1948
there was no such thing as Pakistan my
parents country of origin of which I
have a national ID card I'm not
dismissing or lowering or belittling any
country yeah so we have to I think
acknowledge identity uh so that we can
have the conversation the spirit for
which Abraham Accords the spirit for
which it was named I hope that makes
sense hey Reagan I know you're picky
when it comes to skincare products so
tell me what did you think of genus cell
skincare exactly right Garrett I'm the
type of person who needs to know exactly
what ingredients I'm using in my
skincare routine which is why I'm loving
genu cell their products are made with
antioxidants and formulated by a
compounding pharmacist and they're all
about preventative skincare I've been
using genu cell's new microbiome
moisturizer to Target skin redness fine
lines and other signs of premature aging
it uses the same probiotics that are in
your yogurt as it turns out these super
ingredients can have the same nourishing
benefits on your skin as they do to your
digestive system the results have been
incredible my skin cleared up within
hours
Jus cell has a product for every skin
type and it's not just for us girls I
got started with their most popular
package which includes all their best
sellers bundled into one amazing price
you heard it here first go to Jus
cell.com Jordan to get 70% off their
most popular package that's Jus cell.com
Jordan Jus cell.com
Jordan okay so you you brought up three
very complex issues there and so let me
walk through them one by one
so one of the things that has struck me
very
positively in my life in the last five
years is the fact that the work that
I've done particularly with regards to
the elucidation of the meaning of
Genesis has attracted a very large
number of
Muslims and I'm very happy about that
and I've had completed a number of
podcasts with Muslim thinkers I would
say across the entire spectrum of Muslim
thought not comprehensively obviously
but people ranging from pretty
traditionalist I would say Muslim
fundamentalists to people who are as
liberal on the Muslim side as it gets
and then also critics of the Muslim
tradition like aan hery ali um trying to
you know understand more deeply the
situation that we find ourselves in and
and I need to say a couple of things I
mean I'm extraordinarily ignorant in
relationship to uh my understanding of
Islamic culture it's it's it's a closed
book to me in many ways I've I've done
what I could to rectify that but it's
very difficult to come to an
understanding of your own culture much
less to try to claim expertise in the
niceties of someone else's culture
especially when it's an extraordinarily
diverse culture so you know I'm
stumbling around in a sea of ignorance
and I would also say the same thing with
regards to the situation in Jerusalem I
mean I was just in Jerusalem uh a couple
of months ago for the first time and one
of the things you learn very rapidly if
you're in Jerusalem for even a few days
is that that place is so bloody
complicated that it's no it's amazing
it's not on fire all the time and so and
and clearly it's also the case that
whenever there's ongoing conflict like
there is in the Middle East it's because
the situation is so
complex that no one and everyone has a
handle on it no one understands and
that's why it descends into Warfare
there's no agreement on what the
realities are and so people fight and so
the problem with commenting on that or
putting a toe in the water is that the
probability that you're going to say
something stupid and the certainty that
you're going to eat by piranas
approaches 100%
so well so so now having said that I
would also say that I'm very
sympathetic to your notion
that the there's something very
important to accomplish here in the next
10 or 15 years on the abrahamic
side no so you said that the notion of
judeo-christian culture is exclusionary
and then you outlined a variety of
problems with that
and that that's an extraordinarily
complicated problem because I do believe
that there are affinities between
Christians and Jews and Muslims that are
very very deep and they're ex
particularly important right now because
Muslims Jews and Christians have more in
common than any of the members of those
three groups have in common with this
woke ideology that's pervasively
sweeping the planet that poses an equal
threat to all three of those groups and
whatever civilization might be founded
on their joint and separate
contributions and the fact that Muslims
Jews and Christians are squabbling
amongst themselves in the rubble while
the idiot woke ideology rages madly out
of control is is is uh counterproductive
to say the least and so you know on the
religious front the abrahamic religions
share the belief in the centrality of of
the book they share a fundamental
monotheism um and then and then after
that well then differences that are
difficult to reconcile start to emerge
and no one really knows how to deal with
them so I mean obviously one of the
problems on the religious front with
regards to Jews Christians and Muslims
is
conceptualization of the figure of
Christ and also of the figure of
Muhammad and no one knows how to sort
that mess out and what you get are
dogmatic insistences on both sides um
with the Jews taking a completely
different perspective and you know Wars
have been fought for hundreds of years
or even thousands over exactly those
issues so I do believe there are
important uh
historical what would you say there's
there's an important history that unites
us and there's an important body of
conceptions that unites us on the
religious side on the on in the broad
way
but we're still in the early stages of
the kind of conversation that would
allow those remaining points of
contention which are very severe to be
ironed out but but but to your
point what that at least implies in part
is that language that is predicated on
the assumption that the central
civilizing tendency in the west is only
judeo-christian well you know that
brings with it at a host of potential
problems like the ones you outlined and
then you talked about the the
Netanyahu conversation with regards to
the Palestinians and their Erasure and
that's extraordinarily complicated as
well and maybe I'll make a case for my
viewpoint or the Viewpoint that I
tentatively hold at the moment and you
can tell me what you think about it sure
sure okay so clearly having the
Palestinians drawn centrally into the
process that's unfolding on the Abraham
Accord side is
desirable now let's see if we can figure
out some of the impediments to that I
mean one impediment for me is that it's
very convenient for actors outside of
the immediate local of Palestine and
Israel to ensure that the conflict rages
untrammeled for as long as possible and
it isn't obvious to me at all that the
Palestinians have been well served by
their own structures of governance and I
think that's partly because the
tradition of democratic governance is
not well-founded in many places in the
Middle East and because as I said it's
very convenient for um bad external
actors to ensure that the conflict with
Israel rages unabated
and and
then I I would say I'm also sympathetic
to the Israeli
claim for a variety of
reasons and let me lay lay those out and
I don't know how those can be pursued
without
being while also taking into account the
fact that this is unfortunately done not
infrequently at someone's expense I mean
the founder of
Zionism rightly observed that there was
a Dawning wave of vicious anti-Semitism
in Europe that was going to be
incredibly destructive and that was
definitely the case and then it was the
case that the West in the guise of the
UN let's say decided um that the
establishment of a Jewish state was
going to be all things considered
something like a a universal good and
it's definitely the case that the
establishment of that state has been
incredibly problematic but that one of
the consequences is that there's a
flourishing nation in that area now that
is doing quite well economically and on
the government side and that has become
powerful enough economically and morally
I suppose but at least practically to be
regarded as a worthy Ally by the
countries that have signed the Abraham
Accords and what that has meant is that
the Palestinian situation is still
unaddressed and the catastrophes that
are associated with that still um
playing themselves out and it isn't
obvious to me it isn't obvious to me at
all what can be done about that now your
point was well one thing that could be
done is not to exclude the palestin
Palestinians uh linguistically or
practically and I would say fair enough
but I don't I don't know how we address
the bad Factor problem which is partly
the fact that it's pretty damn
convenient for people who are
anti-israel in the most fundamental
sense to keep the Palestinian conflict
raging for their own particular narrow
self-interest and that's a true
impediment to peace it was also a true
impediment to peace that the bloody
state department has insisted for the
last 70 years that there's no
possibility whatsoever of moving even
incrementally towards peace in the
Middle East without a full solution the
Palestinian problem which the people who
established the abrahamic cord
demonstrated in a very short period of
time was a Preposterous claim so okay so
let's let's go from there I would much
rather see the Muslims and the Jews and
the Christians uh what would you say arm
and- arm together on the monotheistic
front that'd be nice but how the hell we
do that that's yeah well listen um you
mentioned you entered this debate from
the Abraham Accords onwards um so
forgive me if I assume that but that's
what I gathered if it's wrong um I can
assure you I've been living this debate
for my entire life I I um have been to
Jerusalem and the West Bank to rala and
to uh uh Tel Aviv and up and down the
country to the goolan Heights and down
into the South uh I've been on the
Egyptian side uh of the Border uh with
Gazza I I uh have been right into uh the
various sites there prayed there in the
Masid Al and the and one thing I can
assure you with the last decade of my
work on this front is um I'm not really
interested uh in the last thing you
mentioned there which is presenting
obstacles to peace um and so I'm with
you on that I think I think there are
vested interests that want the conflict
to continue the question is Jordan uh
that it be overly simplistic to assume
that those vested interests are only on
one side of the debate Andy fair enough
yeah I come at this as somebody who uh
again it's all open you can look it up I
have uh gone further than uh almost any
Muslim you will find in the English
language on this conversation and I
refuse to go any further because I find
the people purporting themselves to be
partners speaking the language of
alienation demonization and and
exclusion so let's agree on one thing
if it holds as you said that there is
more in common than there's different
which I believe is
self-evident uh then that and and it
then holds by definition that if we were
to be able to somehow rally around the
fact that we have more in common than
what's different and I think that's also
self-evident that we'd have then uh we
would achieve a great Prize for Peace on
planet Earth if we were able to do that
so by definition I don't need an answer
to the question how can we do that to
say to you with the full confidence of
somebody whose heart is where your heart
is that the way to do that isn't to use
exclusionary
language and I think that needs to be
the starting point because you know and
I know how it feels to be excluded
you've been cancelled your voice has
been taken by people that have wanted to
silence you and this Muslim who's been
to prison for a a belief in Islam that I
now no longer subscribe to but we're all
products to a certain extent of our
environment and
experiences um I was one of the first
national broadcasters in Britain to
reach out to you and say your voice was
taken away uh my belief in infinite love
demands that your voice is now heard on
a point of principle regardless of
whether I agree with you or not now
that's the philosophy I approached this
conversation with which is
why when anti-Semitism was rising in
this country again you will find that my
voice was the one despite how difficult
it was considering my background that
was The Voice in Britain that was raised
probably among the loudest to say I have
a covenant with my Jewish cousins that
as far as we're concerned they must feel
that their right to life and property
and family and all of that is kept
sacred and so the point I'm making is
that if it holds as I believe it does
and you've stated it yourself that we
have more in common than is different
and if our only problem is how do we
arrive at a common basis for that
sharing of what we have in common and
celebrating it then it's a no-brainer
that the language we're using in the
meanwhile while we're trying to work out
how to arrive there will be language
that brings people closer not pushes
people further apart and that would be
what I'd say to kanyer west by the way
is what actually I have said to people
that speak like Kanye West who have
started encouraging me to speak like
that but likewise I'd expect people like
Netanyahu to abide by the very thing
that he says he fears arising from other
people and that is people denying his
identity his country's identity and
their own trauma in their own history I
have visited yadvashem I have been many
times with my my brethren in the Jewish
Community to Holocaust museums and I
have cried because it's human suffering
just like I cry in the mosque when I'm
asking Allah to elevate suffering in
turkey and Syria right now with the
thousands and thousands who have died in
the earthquake it's human suffering and
so if that if it holds that that's the
intention that we have our language will
not divide it will only try and bring
people closer together I can't sit here
and claim to you I have the answer to
peace in the Middle East that would also
be incredibly arrogant what I can say to
you is that that answer whenever and
however it's arrived at one day I
believe it will be arrived at because
you know at the end of the day we don't
want to start engaging in
self-fulfilling prophecies uh if we
believe peace is never possible we will
be in Perpetual War that's how language
Works we're casting spells so if I as I
am I believe that peace is possible
because I believe in The Human Condition
enough to sacrifice for that in terms of
my own uh background and where I'm
coming from and to have uh people attack
me for saying peace is possible uh then
what I expect is my interlocutor will
adhere to the same uh language that
reflects their intention I believe
you're a smart man I believe you're
understanding what I'm saying but I
believe that there are vested interests
on both sides of this war because there
are people that believe in the hegelian
dialect they've subscribed to
dialectical materialism what they want
is to create change we know CLA Schwab
subscribes to that he calls it build
back better after a great reset and the
way that they bring change is by
encouraging division this dialectical
materialism was created by materialists
and they understand that if they want to
uh Advance their interests they need to
pick groups against each other the
British Empire did it in the name of
divide and conquer but actually it's
theoretical underpinning is as you're
aware of Jordan is the hegelian dialect
upon which was built the Communist idea
of dialect itical materialism and it's
this belief that only conflict advances
Civilization now that conflict can come
in many forms at this uh month's One
World Government Summit which was also
happened to be I believe hosted in one
of the countries that are uh subscribed
to the Abraham Accords um uh the uh
speakers CLA Schwab and The Usual
Suspects told us that they believe
shocks to Planet uh Earth are what are
requ ired to bring about the the the the
great reset that they are pursuing those
shocks that they're talking about
whether it's a cyber blackout whether
it's uh the covid Mandate period and the
shocks being depriving us of our civil
liberties uh those shocks in the form of
Net Zero carbon targets where they want
to uh enslave us within 15 minutes Zone
cities as if we're surfs those shocks
are designed to bring about conflict and
riots so that they can create change
through this dialectical materialism now
there's people that subscribe to that uh
methodology on the Israeli side of the
debate which is hence fisa being a major
culprit with the Israeli government uh
in all of this the Israeli government uh
today it's just been released some
documents name the three ingredients in
those covid mandates but there are also
people of course on all sides of the
debate not just the Israeli side uh in
Canada where you're from uh just today
uh or yesterday Christia frand the uh
Freeland the democ the deputy pm has
announced the result of the Emer
uh inquiry and stated that they were
right to cut everyone's money off now
the thing isord they're not yeah they're
not stupid people they know this angers
people they know there's a risk of riots
they know there's a risk of terrorism
but that's why they're doing it because
if you can if you can bring about the
conditions in which people can't eat
because they can't buy food and and and
as was published in the Times newspaper
of London today they're they're now
suggesting rationing rationing in
Britain to bring about the carbon uh
targets the agenda that doesn't surprise
me in the least I I I watched yesterday
someone at the WF talk about demand
Management on the poweris side so their
bloody excuse is well we can't provide
you with reliable power anymore so we
want centralized control over your
appliances so we can shut down your use
of energy when it becomes inconvenient
for the system now we got to understand
why they're doing this Jordan though
they're doing it so that the conflict
increases on both sides that's why
you're noticing polarization go up
everywhere not just on the Israeli side
of the debate on the terrorism
everywhere there's polarization because
that's their method for Change and so
we've got to be careful we're not being
useful PSIs for dialectical materialism
by using language that continues The
Divide increases the Divide rather than
bring people together okay so the first
thing I would say about all that is that
h i just
rewatched Eisenhower's speech on the
military industrial complex his 1961
speech with my wife this week speak um
because I was curious once again what
had motivated someone who was so
well-versed in the machinations of the
behind the scenes military-industrial
Enterprise to put forward that warning
60 years ago and it's certainly uh the
case that that situation hasn't improved
and it's it is definitely the case that
as you point out there are vested
interests um promoting conflict
everywhere on both sides of every
conflict I mean we're certainly seeing
that play out on the Russia Ukraine
front at the moment and that this is a
compl who are they that's okay okay now
I think it's the wrong question Maj and
here's why I think that so well there's
this idea that is deeply rooted in in um
in the in Christian traditional thought
of the idea of
principalities and a principality I'm
I'm going to think about it
psychologically in instead of
religiously sure so what we're in at the
moment is a war of of idea
networks and an idea network has an
animating Essence so you you you see
that reflected in the use of terms such
as Zeitgeist you know the spirit of the
times and you see that the
animating uh nature of a set of ideas
when you look at photographs from
different decades you see how Styles
move and shift everybody across the
decades and that becomes very evident As
you move away from the decades I mean
people in the 60s didn't think they
looked like people in the 60s but you
could sure tell now that they did and
that's partly because we're all
imitating each other all the time and
we're all striving for consensus and
we're all possessed by webs of ideas
that happen to be urant during the time
and place that we happen to be born and
we have a Rat's Nest of postmodern SL
neo-marxist ideas operating behind the
scenes at the moment that is rooted in
it's rooted in a corrupt
Enlightenment and it's it's rooted
beyond that in a an envious uh spirit of
cike vengefulness that's ancient and
that system of ideas tends to act like a
conspiracy and so imagine that there's a
so with one of my graduate students just
before I got cancelled as a professor we
undertook a uh formal statistical
evaluation of the universe of
politically correct ideas okay so here
were the questions we were trying to
answer the first question was was there
a coherent set of ideas that could be
identified as politically correct and
the way you assess that is you guard
gather a tremendous number of questions
about political opinion as diverse a
range as you can manage gather them
everywhere and then you give those to
thousands of thousands of people and
find out their opinions and then you
conduct a statistical analysis and you
see if people answer question a in a
particular direction what other
questions are they likely to answer in
the same direction and are there
correlations
between those are there does that
constitute a correlation pattern across
many many people so the question is what
ideas hang together as a set and we
found there were two domains of ideas
that hung together as sets on the
clearly politically correct side and one
was a kind of
inclusive compassionate liberalism and
the other was something more like an
authoritarian uh political correctness
so imagine you took the liberal
compassion inclusive domain of ideas and
you Allied that with willingness to use
compulsion and
force okay so those that set of ideas
clearly two of them hung together and
that those two sets were correlated so
the notion that there is a web of ideas
that are part of this dialectical
materialism that you described or that
would be a subset of it that's clearly
the case now we also looked at what
predicted that so let's say there is is
that system of ideas who's most likely
to be possessed by
it and the answer was well the first the
biggest predictor was low verbal
intelligence and it's partly because at
the core of that idea is set is a very
simple proposition which is that you can
understand all of Human Social and
psychological Dynamics merely by
referring to the principle of power and
oppression and so it's a radical
simplification and that turns out to be
attractive to people who aren't very
verbally sophisticated okay the next
predictor was being female the next
predictors were having a feminine
temperament and the final major
predictor was having ever taken a course
that was overtly propagandistic on the
politically correct side and so well
that was all very worrisome as you might
as you might imagine but but here's the
reason I'm telling you all this is that
we're seeing a situation where it looks
like there are conspiracies at work and
sometimes there are but what's actually
happening is that people are possessed
to a greater or lesser degree by this
web of ideas they reflect that in their
own perception and action as individuals
but then when they get together as
groups like imagine that a given person
is 25% possessed by the politically
correct web of ideas but then you get a
hundred people like that in a room let's
say at Davos and then you have the whole
web of ideas and it has an animating
ethos like it's it looks at the world in
a certain way and is aiming at certain
ends and then that entire system of
ideas Works to promote that and it can
do that and writes books promoting it
and writes books promoting it speech is
promoting it yeah absolutely well and
and it also means that it can operate in
a distributed manner because to the
degree that any given person is Poss
possessed by some fraction of those
ideas they'll go off into their own
domain and agitate on behalf of the idea
system and that's a principality and
that will act to further the entire uh
the entire catastrophe and really the
the entire idea system in its most
fundamental element is a it's an idol
it's a false idol it's a false religion
so uh can I say I agree with everything
you've just described I I think it's a
beautiful way of describing U what I was
alluding to I don't think there's one
Mastermind stroking a cat uh sitting
behind a bit like Danger Mouse uh which
was a very famous British cartoon that I
used to watch as a child and it had this
character called Baron Greenback and
used to stroke the white cat um and
laugh and cackle as Danger Mouse and
penfold his sidekick uh bespectacled
sidekick called penfold uh who bless him
happened to be quite short and boarding
uh with with spectacles I think the
whole point was that they want to
outshine Danger Mouse in and danger
Mouse's presence but I don't think
there's some Baron Greenback figure
stroking a cat U because I've met uh
enough of the of the Frontline
candidates for those who uh fancy
themselves as Baron green back figures
and I don't respect their abilities to
pull off such a feat uh having looked at
them in the eyes and Sh well that's the
other well exact well yes exactly that's
the other problem with the
conspiratorial theories is that yeah so
I agree with your description of it
where I uh where I would perhaps push
you a bit to go a bit more into this
description perhaps uper layer if I may
Jordan is to say that it struck me um
as as describing the reality
from one end of a dualist
perspective and I need to elaborate that
I need to unpack that to to really
explain what I mean um that happens what
you describe the reason people engaging
in dialectical materialism are seeking
to do this uh uh and and utilize or
sorry weaponize political ideas for the
purposes of bringing change uh to
exploit conflict uh for a direction of
travel which is what dialectical
materialism essentially boils down to
the exploitation of conflict for a
direction of travel um they would call
that direction
Progressive uh the reason they're doing
that is because they are are they are
very upset with the status quo and they
believe that the status quo uh has not
only failed us uh but is actively
harming us now the problem I have with
what you said isn't what you said again
I emphasize I agree with everything you
said I just believe you described half
the picture the other half of the
picture is everything you said is also
being done by those to whom it's being
done
too in other words those engaging in uh
woke political activism cancelling
they're reacting to the way which the
machine uh the state has such a power
hedony over them that it also by the way
believes that the ends justify the means
let's not pretend that when the state in
Canada shut off people's money that it
doesn't believe the ends justify the
means um and the problem here we've got
is that we've got people resisting to
this resisting the status quo opposing
it with something just as absurd because
what the vision they want to get to uh
equality not Equity uh results in
tyranny um but what they're what they're
opposing also has an element of the
Absurd in it because we saw some of that
with the unbridled corporatism uh that
is uh on display uh through the big
pharmaceutical companies and the way in
which they're prepared to kill human
beings for profit now now the problem
here that's why I said it's what you've
described in my view is is a critique of
half of the problem and if we can zoom
out here and understand that this whole
thing is caught in uh uh uh the entire
thing is caught in problem reaction
solution right and if we understand then
that the problem here isn't the proton
uh or the neutron but actually both of
them recognizing they're part of an atom
you know uh and if they understand their
part of an atom if they understand they
part of One Hole uh then perhaps they
won't approach the world's problems
through a subject object lens an
othering through a perspective of my
grievance my pain my victimization is
valid and yours is invalid uh because
you're the one doing it to me that's
subject object it's separation um and I
believe that separation is that the root
cause of all of this if we could
understand that in fact we are all uh in
our own ways um one part of an
indivisible whole the uh uh there is no
single Center in a sphere for example
every point on a sphere is its Center
and yet it's still a point right if we
look at the world in a different way I
think that we could escape this trap
because the problem I've got isn't just
with the woke people Jordan and I'm very
happy with your work on that front and I
think that more so than uh most other
people I can think of if not all other
people I can think of your interviews on
that front have been gamechanging and I
I I congratulate you for that but my
problem is a lot deeper than that my
problem is what I'm calling the machine
it demonstrated its power now Co ID
mandates and the
imposition uh of mandatory injections
against the population uh and being told
that we would lose our jobs for example
we would uh we would remain locked in
our homes unless we consented that's not
a woke thing to do um in the caricature
of the sense of the woke idea that we
have in our heads that put it to put it
candidly for you that is uh the state
flexing its muscles and demonstrating
that it can do what it wants because
it's been captured the the second part
is my analysis of it because it's been
captured by corporate interests and in
this case they are big pharmaceutical
corporate
interests so we've got a uh um we I
think we need to understand that uh
they're also engaging in subject object
they're also engaging in uh other rising
and uh I think that's where the problem
begins and therefore of course the
solution isn't political the solution
isn't in any way shortterm this is a
longterm solution to heal what I believe
has become a global uh uh uh problem of
uh human beings living in a state of
permanent psychosis or separation from
the Life Source separation from being
connected uh infinite love
uh a an externalization of the other and
that's happening across the board which
is why we're seeing polarization I can't
think of a time in my lifetime and I'm
young than you I I I I accept that I've
seen a polarization uh this severe
around the world um and that's because
everyone is the victim and everyone else
is their
oppressor we'll be right back first we
wanted to give you a sneak peek at
Jordan's new series
Exodus the Hebrews created history as we
know
it you you don't get away with anything
and so you might think you can bend the
fabric of reality and that you can treat
people instrumentally and that you can
bow to the Tyrant and violate your
conscience without cost you will pay the
piper it's going to call you out of that
slavery into Freedom even if that pulls
you into the
desert and we're going to see that
there's something else going on here
that is far more Cosmic and deeper than
what you can imagine the highest ethical
spirit to which we're beholden is
presented precisely as that spirit that
allies itself with the cause of Freedom
against tyranny there isly I want
villains to get punished but do you want
the villains to learn before they have
to pay the ultimate price that's such a
Christian
question all right so
I would say the most sophisticated
metaphysical solution to that problem of
externalized oppressor narrative
is it it's it's this it's the
spiritualization of that so let me walk
through that very carefully and you tell
me what what you think about it
so there's this idea it's very difficult
to know where to start
this so there's this idea that's laid
out in the story of Genesis in the story
of Adam and Eve that um the garden that
human beings inhabit is
permanently um co-inhabit by a
serpent and that serpent is the Eternal
predator of mankind you can look at it
biologically and you can look at it for
example as reflecting the fact that
mammals and reptiles have been in
Conflict for 60 million years and you
can look at it um as a reflection of the
fact that snakes themselves have been
the enemies of us and our tree dwelling
ancestors since time immemorial and you
can look at it as a reflection of the
fact that human beings are subject to
the ravages of predation and that's
particularly true of infants and so part
of our mamalian heritage as well as our
spiritual Heritage is the fact that we
can be prey animals and that we always
have to contend with that now the the
question emerges from that and this is a
very deep metaphysical
question what is the essence of what's
predatory and then what is the best
response to the fact of that Essence and
so what happens in the Corpus of
Christian thought surrounding the story
of the serpent in the Book of Genesis is
that the serpent there becomes
assimilated to the figure of Lucifer and
mephistophiles to the figure of
Satan and and Satan this is Milton's
take in particular Satan is identified
with the serpent and that what that
means is that the image of Satan
symbolically is put forward as the most
apt representative of the
predator and so here here's how it might
go psychologically in terms of depth of
insight so you want to protect your
children from actual natural predators
and you could throw snakes into that
category and wolves and just the the
natural the animals that would pose a
predatory danger but then that isn't the
only predator and it's not Predator as
such it's a specific Predator a snake or
a bear or a wolf it's not the concept of
predator or predation as such and then
you might think well you need a more
Global and coherent representation of
predator and that's what a dragon is a
dragon is a meta Predator it's a it's a
cat it's a snake it's fire it's a
predatory bird it all entangled into one
image and that's the image of the
predator and the great mythological
stories of the hero confronting the
dragon is the human being taking a
stance against the
Predator but the greatest Dragon isn't
merely a dragon it's something
metaphysical and so what does that mean
well if you're a mother and you're
protecting children your children from
snakes and then from predators and then
from dragons you're also protecting them
against the evil in your own house and
the evil in your neighbor's heart and
The Evil Within the breast of your own
children and that starts to become
something increasingly metaphysical and
the the final transmutation of that idea
is that the
most profound battle against the
Predator is the battle that's undertaken
within so you say well we shouldn't
other and exclude we shouldn't other
people and we shouldn't exclude them we
shouldn't look for a convenient place to
put Satan
that's that's the danger that Renee
Gerard has pointed to with regards to
the idea of scapegoating is we want to
offload the moral burden onto those we
regard as essentially demonic in their
motiv ation we want to be on the side of
the Good by offloading that we want to
do that without doing any of the work
and that's part of the motivation for
using exclusionary language when the
proper attitude is to take on the
apocalyptic nightmare of separating the
wheat from the chaff inside our own
spirits and to clean ourselves so to
speak so that we're no longer um
unwitting agents possessed by that
predatory spirit and that makes it into
a Psy pschological
process rather than something we have to
act out in the world and my sense at the
moment is that we're all making that
decision we're either going to undertake
this looming transformation as a
psychological Enterprise or we're going
to play it out as fate in the world that
was yung's diagnosis by the way at the
end of the second world war and so your
attempts right now to engage with me to
say well let's not use exclusionary
language and dump all the moral
culpability on to someone else the
Palestinians for example because we're
just playing into the hands of those
that are engaging in this conspiratorial
possession I think that's all true it's
murky and it's difficult to to to
straighten out but it's it's true one
more thing and then all one one more
thing on one of the points you made so
you talked about the the use of fascist
collusion to further what looks like
something even more extensive than the
woke agenda I also agree with that and
this is where my thinking I would say
tilts more towards the classical left is
that the left has always been good at
pointing out the dangers of corporate
gigantism but what we're seeing now is
an emergence of gigantism that's not
merely corporate it's corporate
governmental and media all coming
together at the utmost levels of the
power hierarchy all devoted towards
something like the imposition of
stricture and the use of compulsion and
Force to produce something like this
revolutionary change that you've been
alluding to mostly motivated at least
hypothetically by by you know the stated
desire to save the virginal planet from
being ravaged at the hands of the
industrial nightmare and so that's all
going on behind the scenes at the same
time yeah well they're all they're all
unfortunately Jordan they are all uh
dancing to the same tune uh uh on all
sides of this debate and this why I said
essentially it comes down to uh this uh
subject object problem or dilemma
because um you've got valid critiques on
both sides I'm not too offended by the
communist critique of capitalism and I'm
not too offended by the capitalist
critique of Communism my problem is when
the Communists say we've got the
solution and you're going to have to
follow it or when unchecked corporatism
says everything's for sale everything's
a product and you and you shouldn't
regulate um and you know to the extent
where these days as you know Jordan if
you've been following even trafficed
children are for sale so I think the I
think the problem is that there is
legitimate critique on both sides of the
other but because there's a subject toob
problem the solution uh each side is
proposing is other rising of uh the
people that they are uh they see as
their adversaries and that's the classic
dilemma let's put it uh whether it's the
political Compass you're going to use or
the political horseshoe um even the
symbolism of the Cross is this you got
the left and the right and the up and
the down but that makes the whole we've
got to have a way uh to look at the
World by first looking ourselves in a
holistic way so if we can step back from
subject object and the problem really
began with the I think with the Advent
of writing um where this shift in
Psychology began occuring the kuga
period uh in India for example I am a an
Arabic linguist I come uh with a
particular love in my heart for the oral
tradition of the classical Arabic
language
which is the closest language surviving
today that has a continuous Heritage
because Hebrew from the Aramaic family
of languages had to be revived but the
closest living uh uh um language to uh
yeshua's Aramaic is quranic Arabic and
perhaps am harck as well you could argue
as well uh uh there but I think that
this is why I reflect on this subject
object issue a lot because that was a
the bedwin culture was a very oral
tradition and when you put
what happens is when you put words into
letters on a
page uh I think you engage then in the
kind of inversion that's that leads to
the subject object otherization because
those words that we I say are spells
those words that we use um they had a a
a context in which they were uh
allocated to the thing they were used to
describe or the verb the action that was
said to be done they had that context
there the minute we put them down on
paper and then memorize them and allow
the analytical mind to process their
meanings whether we like it or not it's
impossible to ever ReDiscover the
experience that was there in the oral
tradition for how the words were used in
their proper context um now there's
loads of examples for this but I'll give
you one example in Arabic often the word
haram is translated to mean prohibited
nothing could be further from the truth
and I'm by way as you would know again
from my own history I include Muslim
common everyday Muslim translations of
the word you know I'm not here to say
this is a orientalist problem um but the
because translations here in the way I'm
using them is psychological translations
not the uh which particular language you
choose to uh to to to um uh translate
this into it could even be modern usage
of Arabic by arrows but psychologically
they're translating it wrong it doesn't
mean prohibited Haram actually means
sacred if you go to
and you see the Black House of Allah
there that's
called The Sacred house it's the same
word right why I rais that example is
because what is the so-called prohibited
if you shift into an oral tradition it
there was nothing prohibited in that
sense what was prohibited about it was
the context around which it occurred so
sex outside of a sacred partnership and
I use that word again on purpose and not
the word marriage just to drive home
point I'm trying to make yeah sex
outside of a sacred partnership is the
very same act but in one context it's
sacred I.E har sacred in the other
context is Haram profane and that's why
the sacred and the profane are simply
the silver and dark side of a mirror the
meaning of the word changes only because
of its context and again marriage to
continue that example why I said sacred
partnership and not the word marriage is
because the word in Arabic is zah
for your life partner your sacred
partner zah means pair it doesn't mean
wife and it doesn't mean subservient it
it means pair in Arabic yeah you're
pairing so what we have
is which again commonly mistranslated as
the contract of marriage means means the
tying of a pair AK comes from the word
not now that word not yeah which today
is again mated to mean cont contct which
takes all the spirit and love out of
that yeah which is why you have these
prenuptual agreements as well actually
means tie to tie a not so the Z the
tying of a pair they don't have to be
married they have to be in a sacred
relationship that knot that you you're
tying there happens to be the word for
again commonly Mis translated to
Doctrine is from the same root there
which means again to have a knot with
Allah so you see how the context around
those words are fundamentally different
we've lost that context because we've
lost that oral tradition which is why
you and I agree that traditionalism can
go a long way to restoring and healing
those wounds that the overly analytical
mind uh has has inflicted upon itself uh
by what we lost when we lost the oral
tradition why is all of that relevant
because and forgive me for the for the
long anecdote there linguistic anecdote
or hermeneutic anecdote why why all of
that in my view is relevant is because
it comes back to the problem we we're
speaking
of once we take words out of their
context and put them on paper and I'm no
Lite so I'm not saying the written word
should never have been invented um the
prophet Muhammad May uh uh blessings be
upon Him didn't write the Quran down it
was never written down during his
lifetime it was actually collected on
stones and leaves and it was the third
khalifman who collected it in one book
which is why today it's called M the one
that you know and that everyone sees as
the Quran is called Mas uh that was only
brought about and collected during the
third CIF during the califate of or the
successorship again a word very
mistranslated khif means successor to
Allah and his messenger that's all it
means in the temporal sense because no
one can succeed him in the prophethood
so that successor Abu Bakr and then
after him Omar they did not colate the
Quran for the very same reason instead
it was memorized in the hearts because
people didn't want to lose the context
of the words around them that tradition
by the way of memorizing as you know
carries on till today I've memorized
half of it myself um though I am a bit
Rusty but um it was the third kif that
then put that so I'm not against putting
things down in writing what I'm saying
is we've got to be cognizant of what we
lose when we do that so that we can try
and maintain the connection that we lose
when we do that and it's that connection
or the knot that I'm saying has been
lost today and you with your uh advocacy
for a a a deeper appreciation of
traditional mythologies and wisdom I
think hopefully would understand when I
say that connection we've lost so if we
can strengthen that connection prub
object recognize that we're all a point
on a sphere in other words we're all
part of an indivisible whole then the
other ring is declined of course it's
always a struggle because that
connection can be weak sometimes but
that's why you engage in spiritual
practice to strengthen it and and
whatever way that is personally my
teacher is alad I'm of the Sufi way yeah
but the Sufi Way by definition would say
that listen I'm not going to say to you
you have to follow me right this is this
is like the Shar it means the path to
water in the desert you go to water for
life and then you carry on traveling
that's all Shar means by the way the
path to water so if we can understand
what we've lost when when we put words
down in writing is we lost the
relational aspect uh uh uh of the
technology writing was technology yeah
why all of that is relevant I believe is
today as I mentioned when my
conversation a year ago with Joe uh
Rogan um today the version of writing
writing today is Big Tech is social
media it's taking us to that next stage
of Separation in the name of
togetherness in the in the name of
community it's actually pulling us apart
and as you see with your own concerns on
uh anonymity on Twitter it's
psychologically allowing people to abuse
others and speak to them in an other
Rising tone which is precisely what your
concern was with Anonymous uh people on
Twitter I don't think by the way the
solution is anonymity but that's another
topic you know yeah well there's
something there that that you're
pointing to I'm going to go in a couple
directions on this you're pointing to
the dangers of
um what would you say it's it's a
formalized abstraction I mean as we
build conceptual systems that are
linguistic they get more and more
distant from the embodied experience
that's that contextualized embodied
experience that you were referring to
and they lose their connection with
with what's most real and we could
Define what's most real as the domain of
the Sacred I want to give you an analogy
this is something extraordinarily
interesting as had a couple of months
ago there was a paper published in the
journal Nature
about the nature of genetic
mutation okay so it's been thought for a
long time that genetic mutations are
essentially
random and the reason for that is that
the molecular structure the atomic
structure of a given strand of DNA can
be detrimentally affected by all sorts
of environmental assaults including
radiation Cosmic radiation will knock
pieces of the genetic code out and that
produces a mutation there's other ways
that can happen and then those mutations
are part of what produces natural
variation and natural selection draws on
that natural variation to further
Evolution but the idea was that the
mutations were random and they have to
be in some sense because cosmic rays
don't care what part of the DNA chain
they affect but it's been recently
discovered that although the mutations
themselves may be random the repair
process
isn't and so DNA when it replicates it
error corrects and if there are parts of
the DNA strand that are have been
damaged and are no longer viable they
will be corrected but there's a
hierarchy of
correction and so the more fundamental a
DNA code is to the basic necessary
morphology of the organism the higher
the probability that the error
correction will be
100% And so what happens is that
Evolution Tinkers on the fringes and not
at the
core and the core in in this hierarchy
of DNA importance is is analogous to the
sacred
so you imagine in a conceptual structure
there are some
presuppositions that are that many other
presuppositions depend upon they're
fundamental and those fundamental
presuppositions are sacred and the
reason it's forbidden to mess with them
is it's like touching the Arc of the
Covenant is if you if you touch what's
properly sacred with a profane hand you
will be struck dead and that's the truth
now the question is what's valid sacred
now the enlightenment types would say
everything's equally up for grabs but
they don't even abide by that principle
in their own investigations because for
example Someone Like Richard Dawkins
holds it as holy the notion that the
truth will set you free and that the
cosmos has a logos whose investigation
will Enlighten and and further our
struggle forward and those are sacred
religious presuppositions that underly
the practice of science just like they
underly the practice of any religious
tradition there is a hierarchy of
presumption and the presumptions at the
deepest level are the sacred
presumptions now you talked about
marriage and the ability of a sacred
bond to render sex sacred instead of
profane and I think that is one of the
Sacred realizations of mankind that the
sexual act has to be sanctified
has to be placed in a domain of
fundamental relationship before it can
act as anything other than a destructive
impuls of hedonistic force and I think
that that's as true as anything is true
now part of
what's ripping us apart on the
international landscape and
psychologically at the moment is that
it's very difficult for us number one to
agree that there are such things as
sacred propositions and second to agree
on what those are and this is part of
what's also making it difficult for the
Islamic Christian and Jewish faith to
come together so one example of that for
example would be well would be continued
debate about the centrality of the
figure of Christ and so perhaps we can
delve into that to some degree but i'
love that that elucidates the landscape
that we're dealing with in a little bit
more detail may I say on your first
challenge what is uh sorry is there a
sacred as opposed to what is it I think
that there is a way a gentle Way Forward
on that one and and actually that would
help even if we could like like the
other point about language I was trying
to make that if we can at least agree
that our language shouldn't be
exclusionary we at least have a way to
uh try and have a conversation I think
likewise uh uh if we can at least agree
that there that there should be that
there is a sacred then the next level
challenge is what is that sacred and I
think there is a way forward here
because back to the um back to the
relationship between words and their
context and why I believe when you put
words down again I'm not a lite and
again so in today's context why this is
relevant again just for everyone and I
know you're following me Jordan but why
this is relevant for everyone is the
equivalent of inventing writing today is
you know social media big Tech and it's
a new invention that's forcing us to
cognitively evolve in a certain way and
that's what we're seeing all these
challenges it's like the 30 Years War I
made this point with Rogan a year ago so
I think there is a way forward to say
that there should be a sacred and and
why that is is back to the invention of
writing to serve as the case study for
or as the symbol for today's big Tech uh
and its impact on us and and it's and
its uh uh consequences we're having to
live with when they put writing
down what it did is it made us believe
our future is ahead of us and our past
is behind
us when in truth our future is behind us
and our past is ahead of us and I need
to unpack that when you write history
down in a book you're you're going in
chronology in chronological order
because that's the inherent capabilities
that we have and how we write and where
whether in Arabic from right to left in
Hebrew from right to left in Aramaic
family languages or from left to right
in English um you're writing in a
certain timeline it's his story right
it's the story of the author and they
cannot but either write from their
perspective or from the perspective of
the king they serve or from the or from
their perspective being a culmination of
the efforts to gather the people's
perspectives but it will still always be
their perspective on the people's
perspective of what happened in history
so we cannot but help try and write in a
chronological order now what that leads
to is another illusion that our past is
behind us and our future is ahead of
us the written word psychologically does
that to us I believe
the truth is why is our past ahead of us
and our future behind us because
actually if you look at it if you look
at it from the oral tradition if you
look at it from the Aramaic family of
languages BNS people that lived for that
connection they were all about survival
of their genes you brought up
DNA it was about survival their family
if they lost a child in that context I
mean that means more than losing a child
today if you get my drift because it
meant cutting off of their entire
ability to exist that child could well
have been the one that continued the
future of that tribe your child is
Therefore your
future even though it comes after you
which is what I meant by the past is
ahead of us your your child is your
future the PE the things you leave
behind are the
future the things you've
done you know it it doesn't matter what
matters is if you build it for your
future which is a thing you left behind
are your children if we understand it
like that and that comes from the bedwin
collective kind of and when I say
Collective I don't mean in the Communist
Soviet sense I hope you understand I
mean in the every every point on a
sphere is the center of the sphere and
yet it's still a point yeah when you
understand it in that context you
understand that sacred if it were to
mean anything at all would be to be
doing actions as an individual and as a
community that don't harm that child
what we've come to today because of the
way in which psychologically we have
inverted everything's up for sale again
back to subject object the minute we
separate from that connection the minute
we cause that separation which in
metaphysical terms would be or let's
call them in let's say you know in uh in
Sufi terms that's without yeah as
opposed to with yeah so the minute we
are or that there is no Idol rather than
ill EX except the one indivisible hole
of infinite love Infinite Power 99 Names
whichever attribute we choose they're
all serving the same purpose the minute
we cause that disassociative state The
psychosis the separation from that
Source we are in subject object when
you're in subject object everything is
for sale when everything is for sale
there is no reason not to include
children and that's where we find
ourselves today now whether it's the
trafficking I raised earlier which by
the way is not just uh I mean it's
everywhere you know the the reason I say
not just because it's also in Kev the
war that we are so arrogantly supporting
you know so so the problem is it's not
just the trafficking as you know Jordan
with the um with the uh this decision
that underage prepubescent children have
the right to consent to their genital
mutilation without parental involvement
at all again is a profane stance to
take it's Unforgivable
yeah and but that demonstrates the
subject object problem we have
commodified everything and that can only
that's only possible because of
separation and I've come to these
conclusions Jordan not I don't don't get
me wrong this is the evolution of my own
thinking on this because uh it would
began with the wear genocide I was pre-
cancellation on LBC the wear situation
shocked me to my core and I saw a coming
technocracy and how it can enslave an
entire people and then when covid hit I
had already because I I don't know if
you were followed any of it and forgive
me again this is not to poast in any way
but I did a um a 4-day hunger strike uh
for the wear Muslims you know
complaining of the Chinese Communist
party's treatment of their of and
disrespect of the Heritage they could
have been Tibetan uh Buddhists they
could have been Chinese Christians um
and in many campaigns I've involved in
they have been for every not just
Muslims right that's why I'm making that
point um but it shocked me to my core
because I saw a coming technocracy and
what's possible with the uh uh the end
result of the direction of travel that
certain people through their dialectical
materialism would like to take us to and
that's what I call the technocratic
Tyranny um so then when Co by the time
covid came I had already been shocked to
a point where I left my work I was on a
live show and I went on a 4-day silent
hunger strike risking being cancelled at
that point but thankfully uh that isn't
what got me canceled but by the time
covid came I was already primed and my
own uh my own um experienced experiences
had started on a New Journey post uh not
just from post prison but post even
everything I've done in the last 10
years that Evolution had to carry on
because I had to look at myself and and
see what things have I participated in
in my own last 10 years of uh of
campaigning that could have perhaps
helped that techn Tech technocratic
Train along its tracks uh uh whether
unwittingly or not and I really realized
for example I've said things like um you
know these nations are
undemocratic uh they don't have
democracy inherent to their culture or
Traditions which is probably true yeah
and I say these here referring Any
non-democratic Nation not singling
anyone out here probably true that they
didn't have but then I realized that
during covid if the very people that
were pedling this myth that we are in
charge of our own destiny those very
people locked a rough 70% of the world
into their homes until they consented to
a forced
injection those very same people could
turn off your money supply just because
you are protesting out on the streets of
Ottawa and I real we've noticed that
we've noticed that in Canada they can do
that half of Canadians think that's a
good idea by the way crazy right but I
realized I had been unwittingly
participating in the problem it's why
I'm explaining it in this way to say I
also been uh on a journey in that way to
realize that I had been participating in
a problem because my belief up until
that point was that there were certain
countries in the world that were under
tyranny and that others that were free
and the truth is there are certain
countries in the world that are under
the illusion of freedom and the rest of
the world is under
tyranny and the illusion of freedom is
still okay comfortable but you better
bet that when they want to turn off your
food supply your money your ability to
trade and buy and sell uh agenda 2030
Jordan have a look at it their ideal is
zero meat consumption consumption by 203
no cars yeah I know I know so I realized
that I had but I had become an unwitting
tool for advocating for certain
civilizational values that I still hold
dear to and by the way I have sacrificed
for and the people I thought that were
my allies in advocating for those values
are actually my enemy but enemy in a I
don't mean in a warlike sense I mean
intellectually you know I my adversary
to to be politer about the situation
they don't subscribe to these values
whatsoever and so then I I realized what
what was wrong in me to be unable to see
that and I realized that I had also
Fallen prey to this problem I was
describing one half of the dualism I
referred to earlier I was in the ying
and not the Yang or the Yang not the
ying and not realizing if you zoom out
there there's an entire atom and if we
understand that we cannot but approach
it with love and uh and you mentioned
you wanted to talk about Yeshua uh but
this is the same I want to comment on
your your circle on your sphere metaphor
okay so I read a I read a very
interesting description of God once and
this is derived from Jewish thought and
I believe I encountered this when I was
reading y so the proposition is God is a
circle whose circumference is nowhere
and whose Center is everywhere yeah and
that's allied with this idea that each
person is of divine worth and made in
the image of God it's the same idea
right is that each of us is a center and
that's a very strange thing because we
tend to think of things as having a
single Center but whatever the world is
is complex enough so that it has a
multiplicity of centers and I do believe
that to be the case and I do believe
that each of us is For Better or Worse
at that Center I also think that Center
by the way is symbolized by the cross
because the cross is the center and the
point of maximal suffering so that's
part of what that symbol means
psychologically and so now you say that
things go astray when we forget that
right you you're using the metaphor of
the sphere and I think that's right
things go astray when we lose the notion
that each human being is a locus of
divinity in the most fundamental sense
and that it's the moral responsibility
of each person to make that Divinity
manifest to the degree that they're
possible and that the world is a much
lesser place when people don't do that
and it's incumbent on you to take
yourself apart to see where you're
failing to do that long before you worry
about whether someone else is failing to
do that yeah which doesn't mean that you
should you know lay yourself open to
idiot victimization on the Tyranny front
but it does mean that you shouldn't put
the cart before the horse and it is very
easy to see the problem as out there in
the world which it also is instead of it
being something that has to be contended
with within the confines of your own
heart and it does start and this also
ties back to our discussion about what
constitutes what's sacred so in the in
the tradition emerging would you agree
with my basic proposition on that on
that note there on the what that there
is a
sacred yes absolutely and that's Absol
absolutely well in that that idea that
that sacrality is associated with the
notion of diverse centers is
metaphorically and symbolically and
historically appropriate and then you
might ask well what does it mean to be
such a center and I would say and you've
been stressing the idea of love for
example in this conversation and so
here's a here's a couple of definitions
of love all right so one would be the
the commitment to the the the commitment
to the proposition that it would be
better if everything flourished so
that's the notion of life more abundant
and that's the ant the the opposite of
an anti-natalist approach so the the the
um the sacred approach that insists upon
the centrality of each individual is
predicated on the idea that existence
itself is fundamentally good if
existence is operating according to the
principles of love and according to the
principles of Truth so you you see in
the Genesis story for example God uses
the Divine word to create order out of
chaos and the Divine word is honest but
also devoted towards love and the idea
is that words spoken in that Spirit
bring about the order that is good and
transmute the cosmos as a consequence
and that each of us is doing that
wittingly or unwittingly worse or better
with every word we speak and that's
partly why the idea of the logos which
is the divine word is so Central
particularly to Christian thought but
obviously also to Islamic and Jewish
thought because there's a tremendous
stress laid on the sacrality of the word
but this is why it's because the word
spoken properly produces a cosmos that's
habitable that's habitable in good and
that's the fundamental sacred principle
and I think it's I think it's just true
it's it's true metaphorically
traditionally it's true scientific
it's true at every possible level of
analysis and then it's incumbent on
people to act in accordance with that
and it's incumbent on our political and
economic organizations to organize
themselves in what would you say in a
manner that's commensurate with that
individual sacrality that that's also
the source of our idea of individual
right it's not State it's not State
granted which is something insisted upon
by Enlightenment rationalists precisely
and and and if I may if we arrive at
that and what you've just echoed is also
iabi so in the uh in the Islamic
mystical tradition iab's ideas of
uh or the Oneness of being um is a
similar approach to this and if we if we
can tap into that one thing we
understand as again I agree with you is
that everyone if everyone is sacred what
we've got a problem with is is when we
invent
technology we are uh uh engaging in that
process of the separation and every time
a civilizational uh steering uh
intervention technological intervention
is is created it takes us further along
that path of Separation because we are
appropriating the Divine in the thing we
make it's a reflection of the it's only
ever you know where the TV is I looked
at my eye and thought how do I copy it
yeah uh so whenever we do that um uh
make a record of The Human Experience
we're separating now that doesn't mean
again that we're Lites but if we
acknowledge this if we're cognizant of
this Behavior then we understand that
not only must we constantly nourish that
connection to the source so that it
guides that technological uh uh
invention as it comes about and I could
apply the same the written word what can
be said about the written word I did say
on Rogan about the printing press and I
believe again what what I did say that
we're in that moment again now with the
Advent of um uh the big Tech that's the
Tower of Babel problem so what happens
immediately after the flood in the
Genesis narrative is the EM emergence of
the Tower of Babel as a let's call it
you could think about it as a as an
antidote to the flood too much chaos
what'll we do well we'll build a a tower
of technological
artifacts that stretches to the sky and
then we won't need God right and so it
isn't the pro the tower isn't the
problem it's the presumption of the
tower Builders and the tower inhabitants
that the tower now supplants the
Transcendent that's the problem let's
say of the Communist Doctrine which is
fundamentally materialistic it's like
and that's why it becomes totalitarian
that's its attempt to supplant what's
Transcendent and the consequence of that
so interestingly in the Tower of Babel
story is that the presumptuous T
technocrats and bureaucrats and perhaps
scientists and technologists build the
Tower of Babel as an alternative to the
proper Divine uh uh what would you call
it uh Lan Between Heaven and Earth and
then it takes on this nightmarish
quality and the end consequence of that
maid is that no one can speak to each
other anymore is that the most
fundamental elements of communication
become fragmented to the point where no
communication is possible because
everything truly sacred that would
ground communication has now been
dispensed with and then we're in the
situation where we ask well what is a
woman for example yeah so you know
exactly what you've just said there is
exactly what I've been trying to say as
well so we're on the same page now on
all of this and so extending that Tech
analogy if we're not constantly
nourishing that connection to the source
in other words the with rather than the
without yeah so uh if we're not
constantly aware of this danger and it
happened with the printing press it
happened with a written word it's now
happening we're in the moment I believe
where big Tech is doing that to us it's
creating that Tower Babel division
separation in the name of unity in the
name of unity the uh we're encouraging
homogenization with absurdly no
Foundation upon which we we can ever
agree upon for consensus uh so it's a
very strange situation we're finding
ourselves in there if if we understand
what that does we understand that
institutions and systems have inherent
within them the tendency to create and
further that separation and disconnect
or psychosis or
disassociative experience institions and
systems do that by definition which is
why the worle of it is the communist
state uh but but but if we understand
that then we understand another thing
another great Insight I believe uh and
that is that the void that is created by
the invention of this Tech which leads
to becoming Incorporated in systems and
institutions the void that is created uh
between the dot on the sphere and the
sphere itself in other words in
recognizing that indivisible hole while
also recognizing that we're each a point
yeah we're a wavelength we're a particle
so that gap between being a wavelength
and a particle being a dot in the sphere
and being the sphere itself the the
institutions are the thing that are are
widening that Gap systems are I call it
the machine this is why Yeshua is
important because Yeshua comes with love
and one thing again that we have in
common by the way is is the
understanding of the abiding importance
of Yeshua and yeshua's return why
because symbolically what does that mean
is the void that is by do you mean
Muslims and Christians in when speak
here here I'm talking to you in the in
the in the singular here the we here is
you but but metaphorically of course
what it means for the broader
conversation is that void that is
created there when we have systems
adopting new tech and the separation
that creates between the human and the
Machine that void has to be filled with
love it's the only way we can go forward
and this is the the sacred version of it
as opposed to the profane version of it
but if if we take out that love if we
take out the sacred connection you will
end up with the profane you will end up
with this technocratic tyranny we're in
it we see it coming yeah it's already
above us it's over us and the uh uh uh
the the sense for human dignity respect
for the individual's choices the the
sacredness of the individual is being
erased and that's what the covid Mandate
period demonstrated it's what the
15minute cities are demonstrating Oxford
in in the United Kingdom the famous
Oxford city has already passed this the
only to my knowledge the only city in
the world that actually proposed it as a
council and then decided to backtrack
and then promised they would never
enforce it was ironically the uh my the
town I was it's a city now it was a town
then the town I was born in south end
onc and Essex uh which recently
announced it would permanently no longer
consider adopting this 15-minute City
other than yep other than the city of
South an in Essex all other cities are
adopting this and so we're seeing uh the
uh encroachment of this technocratic
tyranny because I believe we have this
separation is going to become
exacerbated unless we remember our
connection to the source and in that
vein it's again why I believe that
otherizing language in this moment we're
in is so we have to be so careful about
it because it's ready to blow Jordan
yeah across the world right you look at
Modi in India you look at netan in
Israel you look at the co mandates in
the west you look at Hamas you look at
the whole world is ready to blow the
polarization has got to Iran which you
and I again uh with our posts online uh
you know we we interacted on the topic
of Iran the whole world is the tectonic
plates have shifted to a point where
some shocks are coming our way and uh
we're out of Crossroads and and and the
only way we're going to get through this
in a way I believe ultimately we will
get through it by the way but I I cannot
but Advocate uh or do perform the role
that I believe I'm here for which is to
Advocate that we get through this in a
uh in a in a sacred way in a way that is
not profane in a way that uh protects
the sanctity of the human being um but I
but we we uh all of us who believe in
that need allies in that task because
we're in a I believe we're at a
Crossroads it's a very very sensitive
moment we're in and I don't believe most
of our colleagues appreciate the moment
we're in most of them as the blues
singers from the American South know
well you meet the devil at the
crossroads so precisely and and you know
this friends of ours that we have in
common that I'm you know I believe have
failed they've missed this completely
well you know we we keep talking all of
us in the hopes that we get smarter as
we do so and we'll hope we manage that
and maybe we managed that together to
some degree today I'm we're out of time
on the YouTube front here and that's a
pretty good place to end even though
obviously we could keep talking
endlessly which is pretty much what both
you and I do and so I hope we get a
chance to pick this up again in the not
ridiculously distant future I'm coming
to the UK in April and maybe we could
meet then um I've also started an
Enterprise called The Alliance for
responsible citizenship that's an
attempt to provide something like an
alternative to this Tower of Babble
horror that seems to be descending upon
us and in any case for everyone who's
watching and listening on the YouTube
platform and its Associated channels
thank you very much for your time and
attention and to the dailywire Plus for
facilitating this conversation and
setting it up technically that's much
appreciated to the film crew here in in
uh Seattle thanks for for your time and
efforts and Majid everyone I'm going to
continue talking to Majid for another
half an hour on the daily wire plus
platform and we'll do something more
autobiographical uh delving into uh
Majid's history and the manner in which
his interests and problems have made
themselves manifest in his life and so
if you're interested in that head over
to the Daily wire plus side of things
and thank you very much Maj it was very
good talking to you and I think we got
some distance today so hoay for that
thank you and you're always welcome uh
to London anytime you come and and and
Tammy as well we've met obviously on
many an occasion I'm yet to meet
Michaela but you're always welcome and
uh our door is always open for you and
uh you're also always welcome to appear
on any other platforms we have um at any
time of your choosing and comfort
whenever you are uh ready or not it's up
to you but our door remains open for you
so thank you very much Jordan great man
appreciate the invitation all right well
thank you all very much and uh ciao
Majid hello everyone I would encourage
you to continue listening to my
conversation with my guest on dailywire
plus.com